Add February 2024 Newsletter (#1441)
USRSE/usrse.github.io: _posts/newsletters/2024-02-29-newsletter.md

* Three main activities and initiatives will be funded through the grant: The US-RSE Annual Conference, a Community Funds Program, and an Awards Program.
* Developing and maintaining a vibrant and functional community network requires infrastructure. To alleviate the struggles of the current process, we’ll invest in infrastructure for managing contact information for those in the network, facilitating networking opportunities between members, allowing people to choose their level of involvement in network activities, and communicating with members. 

## Community and Travel Funds program

Part of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation grant for US-RSE has been delegated for the [Community and Travel Funds program](https://us-rse.org/funds-and-awards/). Members of US-RSE can apply for funds for community or individual purposes for event costs, get-togethers, travel funding, and more. Visit the webpage above for more details.

### Community and Travel Funds Recipients – December 2023

We are pleased to announce that the Community and Travel Funds Committee will fund two applications from the December 2023 deadline!

> Daniel S. Katz will be traveling to [deRSE 2024](https://events.hifis.net/event/994/) to present his talk titled “US-RSE: Today's successes and tomorrow's challenges.” He is acting as a US-RSE representative and will focus on building connections with the international RSE community.
> 
> Nasir Eisty will be traveling to Germany to attend the [Dagstuhl Seminar – Research Software Engineering: Bridging Knowledge Gaps](https://www.dagstuhl.de/seminars/seminar-calendar/seminar-details/24161). Along with several other members of US-RSE, Nasir hopes to elevate the visibility of the US-RSE community as well as promote the role of RSEs in research.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Daniel S. Katz will be traveling to [deRSE 2024](https://events.hifis.net/event/994/) to present his talk titled “US-RSE: Today's successes and tomorrow's challenges.” He is acting as a US-RSE representative and will focus on building connections with the international RSE community.

- Nasir Eisty will be traveling to Germany to attend the [Dagstuhl Seminar – Research Software Engineering: Bridging Knowledge Gaps](https://www.dagstuhl.de/seminars/seminar-calendar/seminar-details/24161). Along with several other members of US-RSE, Nasir hopes to elevate the visibility of the US-RSE community as well as promote the role of RSEs in research.
```

> Please join us in congratulating our two recipients. The next application deadline is March 31, 2024. See the [Community and Travel Funds page](https://us-rse.org/funds-and-awards/) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please join us in congratulating our two recipients. The next application deadline is **March 31, 2024**. See the [Community and Travel Funds page](https://us-rse.org/funds-and-awards/) for more details.
```

The 2024 US-RSE Excellence in Service Award recognizes a member's exceptional dedication to fostering the growth and advancing the mission of the US-RSE organization. The recipient of this award will receive an award certificate, recognition on the US-RSE website, a $250 gift card as well as recognition at the annual US-RSE'24 conference. Nominees must not currently serve on the US-RSE steering committee, award committee, or be part of the staff.

**US-RSE Impact Award**

The US-RSE Impact Award honors an individual's remarkable contributions and influence within the Research Software Engineering (RSE) profession. It celebrates achievements across various domains, including but not limited to: advancing RSE training and education, elevating RSE status through impactful activities, authoring influential works to enhance visibility, and nurturing the development of RSE communities. The recipient of this award will receive an award certificate, recognition on the US-RSE website, a $250 gift card as well as recognition at the annual US-RSE'24 conference. Nominees must not currently serve on the US-RSE steering committee, award committee, or be part of the staff.

> For additional details on how to nominate someone, or yourself, please visit the community awards website (https://us-rse.org/community-awards/).  You may nominate individuals starting today. Nominations will close March 15, 2024.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For additional details on how to nominate someone, or yourself, please visit the [Community Awards page](https://us-rse.org/community-awards/).  Nominations will close **March 15, 2024**.
```

> If you have questions, please send them via email to awards@us-rse.org or ask in the #rse-community-awards slack channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have questions, please send them via email to [awards@us-rse.org](mailto:awards@us-rse.org) or ask in the #rse-community-awards slack channel.
```

<a name="conference2024"></a>

> # **US-RSE Conference 2024  (USRSE'24)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# **US-RSE Conference 2024  (US-RSE'24)**
```

## **Conference Updates**

**Dates and Venue Announcement**

Our next conference will be Tuesday, October 15 through Thursday, October 17, at the Albuquerque Convention Center in Albuquerque, NM. View the [US-RSE conference website](https://us-rse.org/usrse24/) for more details and to stay up to date on upcoming events!

**Technical Subcommittee Announcement**

Congratulations to our wonderful US-RSE 2024 Technical subcommittee co-chairs! Please welcome them and thank them for stepping up to help us put on a great program for this year’s conference!

> BoFs: Nasir Eisty, David Luet     
> Workshops: Elaine Raybourn, Cody Balos     
> Tutorials: Pengyin Shan, Steven Clontz     
> Papers: John Tencer, Fang Liu, Sandeep Puthanveetil Satheesan     
> Talks: Maria Patrou, Derek Wilke     
> Posters: Douglas Friedel, Vishwasrao Salunkhe     
> Notebooks: Torin White, Ludovico Bianchi, Nicole Brewer     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- BoFs: Nasir Eisty, David Luet     
- Workshops: Elaine Raybourn, Cody Balos     
- Tutorials: Pengyin Shan, Steven Clontz     
- Papers: John Tencer, Fang Liu, Sandeep Puthanveetil Satheesan     
- Talks: Maria Patrou, Derek Wilke     
- Posters: Douglas Friedel, Vishwasrao Salunkhe     
- Notebooks: Torin White, Ludovico Bianchi, Nicole Brewer     
```

**Call for Submissions**

> We invite [submissions for the second annual US-RSE Conference](https://us-rse.org/usrse24/participate/) to be held in Albuquerque, New Mexico, October 15-17, 2024. The theme of this year’s conference is “Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow: A celebration of all that RSEs have done for computing in the past, in the present, and in the future.” Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We invite [submissions for the second annual US-RSE Conference](https://us-rse.org/usrse24/participate/). The theme of this year’s conference is “Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow: A celebration of all that RSEs have done for computing in the past, in the present, and in the future.” Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:
```

Reviewer: Missed this one!

* History of the RSE movement
* RSE impact
* Efforts to expand the RSE movement
* Research data management
* Software engineering approaches supporting research
* Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion for RSEs and in RSEng
* Training and workforce development
* Maturing and expanding the RSE profession
* Accepted abstracts will be placed on the website ahead of the conference.

*Important Dates*

> Submissions open: Monday, February 12 for all but notebooks. Notebooks to open Monday, February 26.
> 
> BoFs, Workshops, and Tutorials: Due Friday, March 22. Notifications Friday, April 26.
> 
> Papers and Notebooks: Due Monday, May 20. Notifications Friday, June 28.
> 
> Posters and Talks: Due Monday, June 3. Notifications Wednesday, July 3.
> 
> Camera-ready submissions (Notebooks, Papers): Friday, August 9

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Submissions open**: Monday, February 12 for all but notebooks. Notebooks to open Monday, February 26.
- **BoFs, Workshops, and Tutorials**: Due Friday, March 22. Notifications Friday, April 26.
- **Papers and Notebooks**: Due Monday, May 20. Notifications Friday, June 28.
- **Posters and Talks**: Due Monday, June 3. Notifications Wednesday, July 3.
- **Camera-ready submissions** (Notebooks, Papers): Friday, August 9
```

Reviewer: Missed this one!

<a name="sc-elections"></a>
# **Steering Committee Elections**
The steering committee elections took place in December. Julia Damerow, Rinku Gupta, Kenton McHenry and Miranda Mundt will continue to serve for another year. The other five seats were open for selection.   The following candidates have been successfully elected:
* Abbey Roelofs
* Alex Koufos
* Ian Cosden 
* Jeff Carver 
* Keith Beattie

Thanks to the other excellent candidates David Beck, Mahmood Shad, and Torin White for making the election a success.  All of them have helped to grow US-RSE and make it successful.

In addition, we want to express our gratitude to the three outgoing Steering Committee members, Nicole Brewer, Christina Maimone, and Sandra Gesing. Their decades of experience have been instrumental in advancing US-RSE, fostering connections within the broader research software community, and positioning US-RSE for a promising future.

<a name="proceedings2023"></a>

> # **USRSE23 Proceedings**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# **US-RSE'23 Proceedings**
```

> The USRSE23 conference proceedings are now published! They can be found at https://zenodo.org/communities/usrse23.  All of the conference papers are now posted to this site, along with most of the other submission types. Our apologies for all of the delays in getting these posted. Thanks for your patience! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The US-RSE'23 conference proceedings are now published! They can be found at [https://zenodo.org/communities/usrse23](https://zenodo.org/communities/usrse23).  All of the conference papers are now posted to this site, along with most of the other submission types. Our apologies for all of the delays in getting these posted. Thanks for your patience! 
```

Reviewer: Missed this one!

<a name="events"></a>
# **Interesting Events and Opportunities**

## Community and Travel Funds are available

Part of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation grant for US-RSE has been delegated for the [Community and Travel Funds program](https://us-rse.org/grants-and-awards/). Members of US-RSE can apply for funds for community or individual purposes for event costs, get-togethers, travel funding, and more. Apply today!

## Nominations are open for the US-RSE Community Awards program
In 2024, US-RSE is proud to unveil a new initiative aimed at honoring individuals who have significantly contributed to the Research Software Engineering community. This initiative is designed to recognize their dedication and support in furthering the mission and objectives of US-RSE.

The US-RSE Community Awards are intended for individuals actively advancing the mission of US-RSE. There are two awards available. The Excellence in Service Award acknowledges outstanding dedication to advancing the US-RSE mission. The Impact Award recognizes notable contributions and influence within the RSE profession. 

> Nominations for these prestigious awards are open until March 15th. To nominate someone, including yourself, please visit the event website: https://us-rse.org/community-awards/.

Reviewer: Suggest deleting these. They show up earlier.

Author: Thank you. I have removed them.

* [Code for Thought: Learning How to Learn (and Teach) - Barbara Oakley](https://codeforthought.buzzsprout.com/1326658/14419921-en-learning-how-to-learn-and-teach-barbara-oakley) by Peter Schmidt
* [Unfair Discrimination Against Diamond Open Access Stifles Progress](https://council.science/current/blog/open-science-round-up-january-2024/) by Moumita Koley 

<a name="outreach"></a>
# **US-RSE Outreach**

The Outreach Working Group is actively recruiting new co-chairs to take over its leadership! Volunteers are also needed to help with organizing workshops, birds of a feather (BoF), symposiums, etc. Roles span from organizer to reviewer to speaker and more. Here are some key projects that recent co-chairs, Miranda Mundt and Josh Teves, have led to benefit the overall US-RSE community:
* Strategically planning and delivering the first-ever US-RSE conference in 2023
* Organizing the submission of collaborative proposals to relevant conferences
* Providing awesome SWAG to members
* Assisting the overall US-RSE community with delineating between membership, communications, and outreach efforts

> If you are interested in contributing to a US-RSE hosted event, please reach out to the working group via the [#wg-outreach](https://app.slack.com/client/T8ZT4PJSW/CNR6E0N75) slack channel or [wg-outreach@us-rse.org](mailto:wg-outreach@us-rse.org).

Reviewer: _sigh_ I would get rid of this. We've tried and can't find anyone.

Author: Thank you. This has been removed.

New guidance was recently released on how to create new [Affinity Groups](https://us-rse.org/wg/group-management/form-an-affinity-group) and [Working Groups](https://us-rse.org/wg/group-management/form-a-working-group). If you see an unmet need in the US-RSE community, we encourage you to create your own group!

As always we thank everyone who is already contributing for their help in shaping and growing the organization.

[US-RSE Working Groups](https://us-rse.org/working-groups/):

* [Code Review](https://us-rse.org/wg/code-review/)
* [Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion](https://us-rse.org/wg/dei/)
* [Education & Training](https://us-rse.org/wg/education_training/)
* [Group Management](https://us-rse.org/wg/group-management/)
* [Mentorship Program](https://us-rse.org/wg/mentorship-program/)

> * [Outreach](https://us-rse.org/wg/outreach/)

Reviewer: Remove :(

Author: Thank you. This has been removed.
